porting justin's edits into GH (#253)
jaybee84/ml-in-rd: content/06.prior-knowledge.md

### Building upon prior knowledge and indirectly related data {.page_break_before}

One strategy to overcome the lack of large normalized datasets in rare disease is to combine a variety of data types and explore rare disease data alongside other knowledge.

> By using several data modalities (such as curated pathways, genetic data, or other data types), it may be possible to gain a better understanding of rare diseases (e.g., identifying novel genotype-phenotype relationships or opportunities for drug repurposing).

Author: re: `or other data types`
Justin: provide a specific example

> By using several data modalities, such as curated pathways or genetic data, it may be possible to gain a better understanding of rare diseases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using several data modalities, such as curated pathways, genetic data, or drug-target relationships, it may be possible to gain a better understanding of rare diseases.
```

> By using several data modalities, such as curated pathways, genetic data, or other data types, it may be possible to gain a better understanding of rare diseases.

Author: ```suggestion
By using several data modalities, such as curated pathways, or genetic data, it may be possible to gain a better understanding of rare diseases.
```

> By using several data modalities, such as curated pathways, genetic data, or other data types, it may be possible to gain a better understanding of rare diseases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using several data modalities, such as curated pathways genetic data, or drug-target relationships may be possible to gain a better understanding of rare diseases.
```

These graphs connect genetic, functional, chemical, clinical, and ontological data so that relationships of data with disease phenotypes can be explored through manual review [@doi:10.1093/database/baaa015] or computational methods [@doi:10.1016/j.jbi.2021.103838, @doi:10.1142/9789811215636_0041; @doi:10.1186/s12911-019-0938-1]. (Figure[@fig:3]a)
KGs may include links (i.e. edges) or nodes that are specific to a rare disease of interest (e.g., an FDA approved treatment would be a specific disease-compound edge in the KG) and more generalized information (e.g., gene-gene interactions noted in the literature for a different disease). (Figure [@fig:4]a)

Rare disease researchers can repurpose general biological or chemical KGs that are not disease-specific to answer rare disease-based research questions [@doi:10.1142/9789811215636_0041] (e.g. Box 1b).

> One tactic to sift through the large amounts of data encoded in KGs is to calculate the distances between nodes of interest (e.g., diseases and drugs for Box 1b [@doi:10.1142/9789811215636_0041]); often done by determining the "embeddings" - linear representations of the position and connections of a particular point in the graph for nodes in the KG, and calculating the similarity between these embeddings.

Author: Justin: How are these linear representations?

Reviewer: Looks like i introduced the word 'linear' two years ago. I am not sure why. Best guess is I meant to convey something along the lines of a "vector representation" or a "numeric representation." 

However, I think that just removing the word "linear" is best, to avoid having to add too much of an explanation about the concept of embeddings (out of scope of this review). 

```suggestion
One tactic to sift through the large amounts of data encoded in KGs is to calculate the distances between nodes of interest (e.g., diseases and drugs for Box 1b [@doi:10.1142/9789811215636_0041]); often done by determining the "embeddings" - representations of the position and connections of a particular point in the graph for nodes in the KG, and calculating the similarity between these embeddings.
```

Author: In the interest of not delving too deep into the concept of embedding as you suggested, I had added a simple edit : https://github.com/jaybee84/ml-in-rd/pull/254/files. 
Let me know what you think.

Reviewer: LGTM. Thanks!

With this enhanced dataset, they trained and tested a variety of text classification algorithms to identify rare disease patients within their corpus. (Figure [@fig:4]b, Box 1a)

Rare disease researchers have also integrated multiple KGs and applied neural network-based algorithms optimized for graph data, such as a graph convolutional neural networks.
Rao and colleagues [@doi:10.1186/s12920-018-0372-8] describe the construction of a KG using phenotype information from the Human Phenotype Ontology, and rare disease information from Orphanet and curated gene interaction/pathway data from Lit-BM-13 and WikiPathways [@pmc:PMC7778952; @doi:10.1016/j.cell.2014.10.050; @doi:10.1093/nar/gkaa1024]. 
They trained a spectral graph convolution neural network on this KG to identify and rank potentially causal genes for the rare diseases from Orphanet, and used this model to accurately predict causal genes for a ground truth dataset of rare diseases with known causal genes.
While several groups have used KGs to study rare diseases, we expect that better multi-modal datasets and ML methods to analyze KGs will make them a more popular and important tool in rare disease. 

> Another approach that builds on prior knowledge and large volumes of related data is transfer learning, a modeling technique that “borrows strength” across datasets with both similar and distinct properties like normal developmental processes that are aberrant in disease or an imaging anomaly present in both rare and common diseases, to advance our understanding of rare diseases. 

Author: re: `normal developmental processes that are aberrant in disease`
Justin: This example doesn’t make sense

Author: ```suggestion
Another approach that builds on prior knowledge and large volumes of related data is transfer learning, a modeling technique that “borrows strength” across datasets with both similar and distinct properties, e.g. an imaging anomaly present in both rare and common diseases, to advance our understanding of rare diseases. 
```
